
import ITEM from "../src/components/ItemLink"

# What's changing going into 12.0
The Midnight prepatch overhauls many specs, healing in general and most of your user interface. It is the most significant patch the game has seen in quite some time.


### Talents & Abilities Removed
Midnight removed many talents that included a heal-over-time effect like Spring Blossoms and Cultivation since the UI changes
make it difficult to tell which HoTs are active on a target. Here's the full list of stuff we don't have anymore:

- Skull Bash (our interrupt)
- Spring Blossoms
- Cenarion Ward
- Nourish
- Overgrowth


### Spec Tree Flipped Upside Down
Many of our former tier 1 talents like <WH>Abundance</WH> and <WH>Ysera's Gift</WH> are now at the bottom of our tree in tier 3. Abundance probably deseved the privilege 
but Ysera's Gift is an odd inclusion. Fortunately former tier 3 talent Verdant Infusion moved to down tier 1. 

We also got a few new toys to play with - especially in the middle section of the tree:
- Lifetreading removes the need to place Efflorescence by attaching it to your Lifebloom target. This also saves you quite a lot of mana - particularly on high movement fights.
- Flourish is now attached to Tranquility instead of being an active ability. Blizzard are trying to remove cooldown power throughout the game so this is the price Resto Druid had to pay.
- Power of the Archdruid is now attached to Soul of the Forest and is a 100% proc chance. This makes Swiftmend an incredible setup button and should help keep your Rejuvenation count high for Abundance.
- Grove Guardians are now passive on Wild Growth and Swiftmend casts. The strong Swiftmend gets stronger.




### User Interface
A lot of in-combat addon functionality has been removed. Weak Auras is gone completely and most of your existing addons will work but in a much more limited state. Some of the big things you can't do anymore:
- Any kind of buff / debuff filtering on your frames. 
- Positioning specific HoTs in specific places on your frames.
- The "cursor weak aura" that told you when Lifebloom / Efflorescence weren't down.

I've added Grid2 and Danders imports to the [QE User Interface Page](./user-interface.md).

