---
sidebar_label: 11.1 FAQ
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_class_name: green
image: /images/War-Within-Mistweaver.png
description: "Learn how to play Mistweaver in the War Within. Updated for 11.1.
---

## Author Note

Hello there everyone! My name is Sweggles, I am a multi rank 1 Mistweaver Monk who has mained the spec since Uldir and has been writing guides since Ny'alotha. I want to make sure that I provide the best information possible for the community so I have created another guide for patch 11.1. This guide focuses on maximizing your performance in PvE raiding content. If you would like M+ resources make sure you check out the Monk class Discord: Peak of Serenity. 

# What's changing going into 11.1
There weren't too many changes for Mistweaver Monk in 11.1 in terms of playstyle. Instead we'll cover all changes from the start of the expansion to make it easier to jump back in for returning players:


- <WH>Rushing Wind Kick</WH> was added as a choice node with Jadefire Teachings. It replaces <WH>Rising Sun Kick</WH> as a ranged alternative and also buffs your <WH>Renewing Mist</WH>s for a short period of time. 
- <WH>Jade Bond</WH> was changed to remove the variable cooldown reduction entirely and instead provide a substantial benefit to your <WH>Chi Cocoon</WH>s created from summoning your Celestial. It also gives each <WH>Chi Cocoon</WH> a 4 second <WH>Enveloping Mist</WH> when removed. 
- The cooldown of both Celestials is now 2 minutes.
- <WH>Jade Empowerment</WH> and <WH>Dance of Chi-Ji</WH> were added to offer more DPS options in the tree. 
- <WH>Sheiluns Gift</WH> was moved further up the tree and a ST choice node talent was added to be shared with Legacy of Wisdom.
- <WH>Ancient Teachings</WH> is now a baseline passive at 30% effectiveness, increased to 190% when talented into Jadefire Teachings. 
- A bug with <WH>Misty Peaks</WH>/<WH>Mana Tea</WH> channel casting was fixed.
- <WH>Mana Tea</WH> was nerfed by 15% .
- Chi-Ji was nerfed by around 32% which hurt that playstyle significantly.

## 11.1 Tier Set
All healers in patch 11.1 were given a very similar tier set. Each of them have the <WH>Insurance</WH> mechanic and play around it in a different way. Mistweaver’s tier set is no different and it provides a substantial amount of additional healing just by playing your rotation normally. We'll make a few minor changes to our playstyle to get even more value. First, let's take a look at it: 
img
- **2pc**: Gives our healing spells a chance to apply a strong HoT called <WH>Insurance</WH>! It ticks every 3 seconds (modified by haste) and lasts for 15 seconds. If the target drops low they'll get a big instant heal and the HoT will disappear. You can expect 5 + haste procs per minute - before extras.
- **4pc**: <WH>Renewing Mist</WH> now applies <WH>Insurance</WH> for 6 seconds too! This works with <WH>Rapid Diffusion</WH> which is a large part of why the tier set is so strong for us. The amount of healing <WH>Insurance</WH> does is also increased by up to 50% based on the number of <WH>Renewing Mist</WH>s you have on your group. This value scales with party size so if you're in a group of 5 then 5 renewing mists will give you the full 50% increase whereas if you're in a raid of 10 people you'd need 10.

<WH>Insurance</WH> makes up enough of our healing that it's worth playing around to maximize its value.

## Gameplay Changes in 11.1

### Thunder Focus Tea

Previously we only used <WH>Thunder Focus Tea</WH> on <WH>Renewing Mist</WH>s in raid because haste is an extremely good stat for us. That part is still true but <WH>Zen Pulse</WH> doesn't have any haste scaling which means we'll sometimes want to prioritize a different buff.
- <WH>Enveloping Mist</WH>: Using <WH>Thunder Focus Tea</WH> on <WH>Enveloping Mist</WH> requires some understanding. Due to <WH>Zen Pulse</WH> not scaling with haste it can be beneficial to get Crit instead to buff this window. If you have a high <WH>Renewing Mist</WH> count and either already have a <WH>Zen Pulse</WH> proc or know that the proc you'll get from <WH>Thunder Focus Tea</WH> is going to generate a lot of healing with little overhealing then you can use your proc on <WH>Enveloping Mist</WH>. Use this as you would a normal <WH>Strength of the Black Ox</WH> <WH>Enveloping Mist</WH>, find a target who'll need the HoT and apply it. Try not to overlap procs if you can.
- <WH>Expel Harm</WH>: A niche choice but you can unse it as a pseudo defensive if the time comes where you'd want to simultaneously press <WH>Thunder Focus Tea</WH> and <WH>Expel Harm</WH>. Keep in mind that <WH>Jade Bond</WH> also buffs the <WH>Chi Cocoon</WH> generated by TFT -> <WH>Expel Harm</WH> by 100% which can make it a decent option for HPS at times.

**Do I have to do this? Can't I just use it on <WH>Renewing Mist</WH>s still?**
This is a min-max tactic only and you can absolutely continue to use it on <WH>Renewing Mist</WH> for only a minor loss.

> You **must** continue to use <WH>Thunder Focus Tea</WH> on <WH>Renewing Mist</WH> directrly before or during your Celestial window. Getting any other stat during your Celestial is a massive HPS loss during key moments in the fight.


## Special Thanks

I think that 11.1 is going to be an excellent tier for Mistweaver Monk overall. I think that a lot of the buffs that we have received and the slight changes to our talents have made us a top contender in all forms of content. I am very excited to see how things play out for us moving forwards. A special thanks to all my lovely supporters as well as my close friends for helping motivate me to provide the best content that I can for you all. Thank you Mumsy, Bad, Voulk, Swirl, Meg, and Mytholxgy for their help. I hope you all have a wonderful tier and if you have any questions for me you can reach me on any of:
- Twitter: sweggles1
- Twitch: Swegglesqt 
- Discord: swegglesqt 
- YouTube: Sweggles7925

I also do in-depth, one-on-one coaching!! If you are interested in that you can contact me on Discord! 
